# Fault Tolerant Flocking
This project sought to explore fault tolerant flocking techniques and analyze their impact on flocking models. This was completed as a course final project in May 2024.

## Problem Statement
Multi-robot systems are currently used to solve a wide range of problems. However, one challenge that can have a profound impact on system performance is robot failure. With a single-robot system, there are already a multitude of potential sources of failure, such as actuator, sensor, and software errors. These sources of failure are further compounded in a system that includes more than one robot. Multi-robot systems also introduce the necessity for coordination and communication between the robots, which creates another point of failure. This project seeks to explore fault tolerant techniques that can make multi-robot algorithms more robust and resistant to robot failures. The scope of this project is limited to multi-robot flocking algorithms.

## Solution Methodology
For this project, 2 models were compared to assess the effectiveness of fault tolerant techniques. The first model was based off of the Reynolds flocking algorithm (created by Craig Reynolds) that had been modified to include target following. The second model built upon the first model and implemented a fault tolerant technique. To assess both models, a group of robots would be placed on one side of a grid world and would be tasked with travelling to the opposite side of the world. Each turn, every robot would have a fixed probability of experiencing actuator failure. When this occurs, the robot is no longer able to move and other capable robots must avoid colliding with the failed robot. For both algorithms, the robots could transmit their current velocity and position with each other. However, they could not communicate whether or not they had experienced actuator failure.

## Results
This project was not able to conclusively determine the effectiveness of fault-tolerant techniques when used in a flocking algorithm. This shortcoming appears to arise because robots are not able to effectively detect when another robot has failed. Therefore, more work should be done to assess how to better identify robot failure. The code for this project can be reviewed in the 2 code subdirectories. One subdirectory is for the base Reynolds model while the other is for the fault tolerant version. For a more detailed explanation of this project, please refer to [Fault Tolerant Flocking Report.pdf](https://github.com/cyoo28/fault-tolerant-flocking/blob/main/Fault%20Tolerant%20Flocking%20Report.pdf).
